Ryan E. Little
ryanerinlittle@gmail.com
Writer, Coder, Journalist

https://www.linkedin.com/in/ryan-little-b89060193/
https://twitter.com/ryanlittlee
https://github.com/ryanelittle/

Experience
Beat Reporter
The Ledger <e>Lakeland, Fla.</e>
June 2011 - July 2014
Primarily covered two largest city halls in the county. First reported on Winter Haven, Fla. before promotion to Lakeland. Wrote enterprise and breaking news stories with enormous impact. Produced multimedia projects. Live-tweeted commission meetings and other events. Covered 2012 Republican National Convention. Circulation of 40,000 and 60,000. Impact included:
Termination of a planned $150 million mixed-use development set for the city’s premier recreational site that also sank a plan to relocate the city swimming pool to a brownfield.
Resignations of three city officials – including a commissioner – and prompted a state attorney’s office investigation that led to changes in the creation of city records.
Made public input during commission meetings more accessible before crucial votes.
Multiday narrative on the unsolved murder of a musician shot when a bystander intervened in an attempted robbery credited by some for leading to an arrest and conviction.
Broke statewide news multiple times; feature story about an apartment complex in the median of a state road picked up by wire services and ran in many Florida newspapers.
Business Intern
Orlando Sentinel <e>Orlando, Fla.</e>
January 2011 - May 2011
Covered Orlando businesses in the wake of the financial crisis. Most significant story about a shopping center owner who created new businesses to fill vacancies while trying to survive the Great Recession. It ran on the front-page. Worked only Mondays and Fridays with full-time studies and part-time job. Received perfect marks in review and created first intern beat book.
Business Intern
The Ledger <e>Lakeland, Fla.</e>
September 2008 - January 2011
Worked as the business intern during the summer of 2009. Wrote enterprise and breaking news stories. Landed on the front-page reporting the city-owned airport was marred by a conflict between its director and a consultant hired by the city to attract new business. Impact included the termination of the airport consultant’s $216,000 contract, reappointment of the airport director to another department. Awarded the largest bonus an intern had received. Metro and sports stories as a freelancer. Formatted agate and edited wire stories for space on sports desk.

Education
Pursuing Master's or Arts, Journalism, University of Maryland, Expected Graduation Date of December 2020
Bachelor of Arts, Journalism, University of Central Florida, May 2011

Continuing Education
Poynter Reporter's Boot Camp 1, Summer 2013, Taught by Thomas French and Kelley Benham French
Ted Scripps SPJ Leadership Institute, Summer, 2013


Skills
Writing Compelling Feature Stories. Experienced in writing and reporting many types of feature stories, including narrative non-fiction.
Investigating as Journalism. Specialized in using the scientific method to develop and test hypotheses in the practice of journalism with impact.
Beat Reporting. Able to develop and maintain sources on a beat, develop day-to-day update stories as well as major enterprise pieces that can set the agenda.
Data Analysis. Skilled at using data in spreadsheets to develop stories and add to them. Learning to apply coding languages like R to expand my skills.
Designer. Can use HTML5 and CSS to play a part in the professional design of stories when bringing together multiple elements onto a webpage.
Videographer. Fluent in Adobe Premier Pro and behind the camera to produces video packages created through a visual reporting process.

Awards
2014 Joseph L. Brechner Freedom of Information Award
Reporting Part of Organizational Award
"Annual award is dedicated to recognizing excellence in reporting about freedom of information, access to government-held-information, and the First Amendment." Reported lack of legally-required records for some Winter Haven commission meetings, which violated the law.
2013 FSNE First Place in Feature and Arts Writing, Division C
Individually Awarded
"Awarded for narrative on the murdered musician. Covered events of the night, the then ongoing search for hte killer and impact on the city and the local music scene."
2013 SPJ Sunshine State Awards, First Place for Presidential Coverage
Member of Awarded Team
Series called The Homestretch built on man-on-the-street interviews localizing policy issues. Included work from three other reporters. Contributed more stories than any other repoter.
2012 FSNE First Place in Use of Social Media in Breaking News, Division C
Member of AWarded Team
For use of posts on Twitter to report Legoland Florida's opening day.
